The majority of Canadians were born in this country and this 
has been true since the 1800s. However, Canada is often 
referred to as a land of immigrants because, over the past 200 
years, millions of newcomers have helped to build and defend 
our way of life.

. Since the 1970s, most 
immigrants have come from Asian countries

Non-official languages are widely spoken in Canadian homes. 
Chinese languages are the second most-spoken at home, after 
English, in two of Canada’s biggest cities. In Vancouver, 13% 
of the population speak Chinese languages at home; in 
Toronto, the number is 7%


Between 1534 and 1542, Jacques Cartier made three voyages 
across the Atlantic, claiming the land for King Francis I of 
France. Cartier heard two captured guides speak the Iroquoian 
word kanata, meaning “village.” By the 1550s, the name of 
Canada began appearing on map

To better govern the French Roman Catholic majority, the 
British Parliament passed the Quebec Act of 1774.

The Beginnings of Democracy
Democratic institutions developed gradually and peacefully. 
The first representative assembly was elected in Halifax, Nova 
Scotia, in 1758. 

The Constitutional Act of 1791 divided the 
Province of Quebec into Upper Canada (later Ontario), which 
was mainly Loyalist, 

ABOLITION OF SLAVERY
Slavery has existed all over the world, from Asia, Africa and the 
Middle East to the Americas. The first movement to abolish the 
transatlantic slave trade emerged in the British Parliament in 
the late 1700s. In 1793, Upper Canada, led by Lieutenant 
Governor John Graves Simcoe, a Loyalist military officer, 
became the first province in the Empire to move toward 
abolition.


The first companies in Canada were formed during the French 
and British regimes and competed for the fur trade. The 
Hudson’s Bay Company, with French, British and Aboriginal 
employees, came to dominate the trade in the northwest from 
Fort Garry (Winnipeg) and Fort Edmonton to Fort Langley (near 
Vancouver) and Fort Victoria—trading posts that later became 
cities.

The Montreal Stock Exchange opened in 1832. 


. In 1813 the Americans burned Government House 
and the Parliament Buildings in York (now Toronto). In 
retaliation in 1814, Major-General Robert Ross led an 
expedition from Nova Scotia that burned down the White 
House and other public buildings in Washington, D.C. Ross 
died in battle soon afterwards and was buried in Halifax with 
full military honours

. The present-day Canada-U.S.A. border is partly 
an outcome of the War of 1812.


 The Duke of Wellington sent some of his best soldiers 
to defend Canada in 1814.therefore played a direct role 
in founding the national capital.

 In 1813, Laura Secord, pioneer wife and mother of five 
children, made a dangerous 19-mile (30-km) journey on foot to 
warn Lieutenant James FitzGibbon of a planned American 
attack. Her bravery contributed to victory at the Battle of 
Beaver Dams. She is recognized as a heroine to this day.

RESPONSIBLE GOVERNMENT
In 1840, Upper and Lower Canada were united as the Province 
of Canada. Reformers such as Sir Louis-Hippolyte La Fontaine 
and Robert Baldwin, i
