When Germany attacked Belgium and France in 1914 and 
Britain declared war, Ottawa formed the Canadian 
Expeditionary Force (later the Canadian Corps). More than 
600,000 Canadians served in the war, most of them volunteers, 
out of a total population of eight million.

 The Canadian Corps captured Vimy 
Ridge in April 1917, with 10,000 killed or wounded, securing 
the Canadians’ reputation for valour as the “shock troops of the 
British Empire.” One Canadian officer said: “It was Canada 
from the Atlantic to the Pacific on parade … In those few 
minutes I witnessed the birth of a nation.” April 9 is celebrated 
as Vimy Day.

n April 9, 1917, the first British victory of the First World War. 
Agnes Macphail, a farmer and teacher, became the first 
woman MP in 1921.

WOMEN GET THE VOTE
At the time of Confederation, the vote was limited to propertyowning adult white males. This was common in most 
democratic countries at the time. The effort by women to 
achieve the right to vote is known as the women’s suffrage 
movement.

 Dr. Emily Stowe, the first 
Canadian woman to practise medicine in Canada

Canadians remember the sacrifices of our veterans and brave 
fallen in all wars up to the present day in which Canadians took 
part, each year on November 11: Remembrance Day.

Lieutenant Colonel John McCrae 
composed the poem “In Flanders Fields” in 1915; it is often 
recited on Remembrance Day.

The stock market crash of 
1929, however, led to the Great Depression or the “Dirty 
Thirties.

The Bank of 
Canada, a central bank to manage the money supply and bring 
stability to the financial system, was created in 1934. 


THE SECOND WORLD WAR
The Second World War began in 1939 when Adolf Hitler, the 
National Socialist (Nazi) dictator of Germany, invaded Poland 
and conquered much of Europe.

More than one million Canadians and Newfoundlanders 
(Newfoundland was a separate British entity) served in the 
Second World War, out of a population of 11.5 million. This 
was a high proportion and of these, 44,000 were killed.

At the end of the Second 
World War, Canada had the third-largest navy in the world.

The state of war and public opinion in B.C. led to 
the forcible relocation of Canadians of Japanese origin by the 
federal government and the sale of their property without 
compensation. This occurred even though the military and the 
RCMP told Ottawa that they posed little danger to Canada. The 
Government of Canada apologized in 1988 for wartime wrongs 
and compensated the victims



